## Data cleaning project 



This repository contains R script and other files for generating tidy data table from the [Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones). The data set can be downloaded [here](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip).

### Tidy data
[Tidy data](https://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf) is data organized in a way that facilitates analysis and exploration. In general, tidy data satifies the following conditions:
>   1. Each variable forms a column.
>   2. Each observation forms a row.
>   3. Each observational unit forms a table.

             
### Files
* **run_analysis.R** contains code to produce tidy data. The script assumes the the data set are already downloaded. Also, the script operates around the *tidyverse* package which is a collection of packages for data science. More information about tidyverse can be found at [tidyverse website](tidyverse.org). Specifically, **run_analysis** performs the following procedure:
>  1. Load train, test, features ,and labels data.
>  2. Perform tidy operations which include:
>     * trimming leading whitespace and prefix numbers on column names
>     * converting each column to appropriate data types
>     * renaming and selecting specific column names
>  3. Merge train and test data using column names from features data and using labels data to label activities.
>  4. Create summary table and write output to a file. 
* **codebook.md** contains information regarding variables/features of the data set.
* **tidy_data.txt** contains output table generated by run_analysis.
